Awesome. So let's start from the beginning.
It's a very good place to start. Okay. Perfect. So let's pretend I just introduced you.
Everything is working out perfectly. Welcome to everyone to the meetup.
And now, David, it looks great on Zoom. There you go.
Okay. So from the top, right, I think the goal here is to provide an overview of the
different components of RStudio Team and how they can support the work you're doing in Python.
So I'll give a quick sort of overview of those three components, and then we'll jump into
sort of trying to solve some problems that you might confront as a data scientist with them.
And so just to outline what they are, and again, I'll stress that they do work independently.
So you should feel free to consider the ones that work specifically for your collection of
problems, right? RStudio Workbench is going to give you IDs, right? So places to develop and
build that code, right? So the RStudio IDE, which you can use to edit Python code, there's some
functionality that's been built in there to support doing that, as well as more Python-native editors
like Jupyter or VS Code, right? So that's going to give you all of those options. Connect is going
to be where you share things with people who you wouldn't expect to be working in a development
environment. So applications you built with Shiny or Python frameworks like Dash or Streamlit.
APIs, so if you're trying to facilitate machine-to-machine communication, or reports
or documents that you want to share, perhaps on some kind of regular schedule. And then supporting
those two services, and where we'll start kind of walking through how these things can be used
as package manager, which is going to give you the ability to bring those open-source repositories
inside your network, which solves an important networking kind of constraint that some teams have.
It gives you the ability to serve your own internal packages. So if you've already got
a development ecosystem of those things, then you can serve those from package manager.
And it's going to make it possible for you to impose some reproducibility governance.
And so I think the first thing that I'll sort of focus on, right, is using some of the
functionality that exists in package manager to have an easier time reproducing
your project when something unexpected happens. And the example I want to use to highlight that
is thinking about this kind of change that happened last week in Streamlit,
where one of the underlying libraries that supports Streamlit, called Protobuf,
sort of made a change. And that change resulted in lots of breaking Streamlit applications.
And people had to kind of figure out that they needed to pin their dependencies to a version of
Protobuf that doesn't sort of have the change behavior. And so that's one way of going about
solving the problem of specifying an environment that's going to work for your project.
The thing I want to show in package manager is that you have some other options
for reusing functionality that we built for R to make your project easier to reproduce.
In particular, I'm talking about this kind of date-based snapshotting model
that we make available. If I select today, the latest date, which is today,
then what we're going to get is just PyPI as it exists at the moment. And so if we wanted to,
say, be able to reproduce the error as people were experiencing it on the 26th, then we can use
sort of this date-based snapshot. And so when we call pip install, if we were to call it in this
way with this index URL pointing to this date-based snapshot of the repository, then that
request is going to be resolved by package manager as if it were the 26th. And so you'll see that
in a library where we have that configured, we're actually going to end up with the same
breakage that other people were experiencing. But a nice thing that we can do is roll
configure our repository so that it points to a previous week, and that's going to give us a
little bit more, it's going to unblock us from getting our project out and deployed.
And so I'm going to jump over to RStudio Workbench to show you what that looks like. This
is kind of the landing page for RStudio Workbench. If you wanted to start up additional sessions,
you would be sort of opening up this launcher pane. You have the ability to select from those
different editors, as I mentioned. Another thing I won't spend as much time on today,
but you have the option of running your sessions in the context of some external cluster resource
manager. And in this case, we're using Kubernetes, and that gives us a little bit of finer grain
control over the resources available to an individual session. But also this thing that
I find really convenient is the ability to select different images for that workload.
And so that, you know, you can imagine if you have, say, like, operating system level
reproducibility requirements, which is a thing that happens sometimes, or if you just have
workloads that are different enough that it's useful to express them as different container
images, then this can be a nice way of making those things available in the Workbench context.
And so I'll open up, in this case, VS Code. And what I'll show you is, right, like,
if you've used VS Code locally on your desktop, the experience you're seeing here is going to
be pretty similar. So I opened up a new terminal window. I'll make this a little bit bigger.
And I've opened up a new terminal window. What we're going to see, right, is, you know, we've
got the code for a Streamlit app. When I opened up this terminal, I automatically activated this
virtual environment. The thing I'll also show you here is I've created a virtual environment
that specifically has my PyPI repository set to install packages as if it were the 26th.
And so if I activate that virtual environment instead and attempt to Streamlit run
my app, right, what we're going to see is we're going to have the app sort of blow up on that
same protobuf error that people were experiencing, right? And so the way you can tell that the pip
configuration is set that way, in this case, is I'm going to call pip config. And I've set the
site configuration, which just means it's configured for this virtual environment.
I'll type a list, right? And what you should see is that the global index URL is going to be set
for PyPI on that specific date, right? So, you see global index URL, colorado.rstudio.com,
which is where we keep our server, right, pointing to that date.
I'll get rid of that virtual environment. Yeah.
Just for quality on Zoom, too, probably just Zoom in a little bit.
Sure.
If that's okay. Cool. Thank you.
So, no problem. And so let's activate our standard virtual environment.
And so now if I try to streamlets run the application, and I think I actually have the
streamlet running application here, right, then you'll see that we kind of get the startup you're
expecting. But if we want to view this application before we start thinking about pushing it
anywhere, and this is kind of a workbench extension that we provide for working with VS Code, one of
the things that's going to be different from doing development in this browser context as opposed to
doing it locally is that, you know, lots of things when you're doing this local development
expect to be able to kind of call themselves on a locally running web server. And we have to do a
little bit of extra work to make sure that you can find those applications in the context of that
remotely running server. And so this proxied servers view in RStudio workbench just sort of
finds when you start an application and then serves its location up to you here so that when I
click it, it's going to redirect me out to the streamlet application that should be loading
there. And so that's how we can sort of do some of the development work that we would be
sort of doing normally on a local context. So that's, you know, package manager sort of
behind the scenes, right, supporting you being able to configure different development environment,
different sort of virtual environments that have, you know, sort of different
database snapshots. And that's going to make things a lot easier to deal with. Once we have,
you know, once we've got the application in a place where we're ready to share it with people,
then the next thing we're going to want to think about doing is deployment. And so I'll walk
through what the process of using the command line interface that is distributed on PyPI
called rsconnect-python. If you wanted to get that on your machine, you would pip install
rsconnect-python. And that's going to give you this rsconnect command line interface. If I type
help, right, then we're going to get a bunch of information about the different things that this
command line interface can do. I'm going to close this window so we get a little bit more space.
And so, yeah, we've got a bunch of different things, these top level commands, right? We can
enter, we can set the command line interface up to interact with a bunch of different servers.
So in this case, if I list the configured servers, I have, you know, one connection set up to the
server we'll be deploying to. Then I could have, you know, additional servers. If I had a development
server or pre-production server where I needed to deploy things for user acceptance testing or
things of that nature. If I look at the help for deploy, right, then we're going to see a
bunch of information about, again, the different types of content that are supported by Connect
for deployment, right? So API and FastAPI are going to give you synchronous and asynchronous
Python servers, respectively. They're not totally general, right? But for lots of Flask apps or if
you're building things based on like FastAPI or Starlet, if you're familiar with that, or Quartz
or Sanic, there are a couple of different options that we support on the API side to make it
possible for you to deploy lots of different kinds of things. Bokeh, Dash, and Streamlet are going to
be, you know, those application frameworks that make it easy for you to share visualizations and
things like that. The command line interface also supports behind the scenes the deployment
of Jupyter Notebooks, which I'll show from Jupyter in a second. And then one kind of nice
bonus, right, is that if you have a manifest file, which is kind of our Connect specific deployment
artifact, and I'll show you what that looks like here. It has a bit of information about what you
need to get your application deployed. But if you have one of those in the repository already,
then you can use the command line interface to deploy those things. And the nice thing about
that is that that works with content, even if that content is R only, you can use the command
line interface to get that deployed. So, in this case, I'm going to deploy
Streamlet application and get the help for Streamlet. And so, we're just going to need
a couple of things to get this off our machine and shared with everybody else, right? And so,
in particular, we're going to need to provide the directory, right, where this lives. There are
going to be a couple of extra files here. We're going to need to provide the name of the target
server. And then we're also going to specify the path to the Python interpreter, just to make it
sort of explicit where we're getting our dependencies from. So, I'm going to deploy
Streamlet's current directory to the target server with a specified Python interpreter.
And that's not, it's a dash P. And so, the process we're going through here to get this deployed
is going to be kind of conceptually similar, no matter what you're deploying to connect, right?
Which is we're going to create a bundle of the files we've specified and something that
enumerates the requirements that we have to build this on the server, right? In this case, that's
going to be the requirements file, right, which lays out what I, you know, what dependencies I
need in order to rebuild this application on the Connect server. So, we're going to turn those
things into a bundle. We're going to send them to the Connect server. Connect receives the bundle
and is going to use that to rebuild the environment. And it's going to rebuild that
environment in an isolated way, which is going to be very convenient for you, because, you know,
it supports deploying things built with multiple versions of Python, potentially conflicting
packages, right? You can have different versions, say, applications built with different versions
of Streamlet, and those can all live simultaneously on the Connect server. So, it's going to give you
a lot of freedom in terms of experimentation and just, like, being able to deploy things
without worrying about taking other things down. And so, this is going to take a second to deploy.
While that happens, let me pause. Rachel, any questions I should answer, or should I keep going?
Yeah, let me check over to the Slido and to YouTube here. Thank you all again for switching
over with us and bearing with us through any technical difficulties here. As a reminder,
you can also ask questions anonymously through Slido. And so, I'll ask Tom, Hannah, or Tyler
to share that in YouTube as well. But the short link is just rstd.io meetup-questions. And I'm
sure they're sharing that in the YouTube chat right now. Let's see. I'll go over to the team
who's helping me over here on Slack. Do you see any questions on YouTube yet?
I don't see any yet from the team.
One question I just had, David, if people want to follow along with some of these examples that
you're sharing, where's the best place to get those? Or can you share that GitHub link?
That's an excellent leading question. That's the next link I have here. So, all of the examples,
there are a bunch of, as I mentioned, different types of things you can deploy
to connect that are Python-based. And so, we have this repository,
GitHub.com slash Solange Python examples. And that's just going to give you all of these
different types of content. So, Streamlit apps, Flask apps, Reticulated apps. So, that's apps
where you say you have a shiny front end, but a lot of the work is being done by Python, FastAPI,
Flask. We've really got sort of everything there. So, feel free to fork this repo. The examples,
we try as hard as we can to keep them deployable. So, if you need, say, something to test on your
Connect server and fork the repo and deploy it to your Connect server just as a way of
understanding the different capabilities that Connect has for supporting Python content.
Awesome. There's a few questions that came through Slido. And one was, I configure my
Python environment using Conda. Can I use Conda with RStudio Connect?
The answer is sort of. So, I think Connect's focus is on
where Connect does the best is with packages that are on PyPI. So, you can use Conda to manage your
environments. And if the packages that you're using are available on PyPI, then it should be
reasonably straightforward to restore. There are ways of getting Connect to restore packages that
might not be available from PyPI that's a little bit more involved. It's going to involve some
collaboration and coordination with your administrator to make that work.
So, yeah, I think sort of our workflow is pretty PyPI centered at the moment.
Okay. Thank you. And one other question that came through was, will Django be supported?
Um, I am not the right person to ask about whether Django will be supported. What I would
say is that, you know, I think Django tries to do a much bigger set of things than is like the modal
or the typical thing that a data scientist is trying to build an app to do. Part of what
Connect makes so easy is some of the concerns around user management or things like that,
where Django is trying to be a truly sort of full stack web framework. So, you know,
people ask occasionally. And I think it's something that we can sort of monitor the
interest in. But right now, I'd say it's not something we're thinking about in the immediate
collection of priorities. Thank you. And then one other question I did see on YouTube
was, is this presentation being recorded and made available later? Yes. One of the nice things about
YouTube Live is that the second that it is the presentation's over, the recording is available
at the same exact link, too. But thank you, David. I'll turn it back over to you.
So, yeah, like I mentioned, there are a bunch of different Python examples that we have available
in the repository. So, one of the things I'll just do is jump back to Workbench and open up
Jupyter, right, which is going to give you, again, if you're, I'm going to use the classic
notebook interface for this example. JupyterLab is also a supported option.
And so, in this case, I've got an example. It's pretty bare bones. It just runs a couple of
visualizations and is going to give you some plots that you could share. And so, I think the lesson
here is, or the takeaway, right, is that if you're somebody who likes to use Jupyter to do your data
science work, right, the experience that you're going to have, right, it should not be substantially
different on Workbench. And so, it's going to continue to be that familiar home for you to do
some of that development work. There are really only two extensions right now that we provide in,
say, the Jupyter classic interface. One of them is just going to take you back to the Workbench
homepage. And then the other one is going to support the publishing workflow, and I clicked
on the wrong button there, that mirrors pretty closely what it looks like to use the push button
publishing workflow from the RStudio IDE. And so, that's just going to mean that, you know,
you've done some interactive development in the notebook. You're ready to share those results
with other people, and we're going to give you an easy way to push that notebook to a remote server.
So, you can see, right, I've already configured my, I've configured sort of the target server
where this is going to be deployed. I'm going to call this presentation notebook.
And then for all kinds of documents that you publish to Connect, and this is,
excuse me, both on the R and Python side, you're going to have the option of either publishing the
document with source code, and that's going to unlock a lot of the power to have Connect serve,
take custody of the document, execute it on a schedule. We'll show what that looks like in a
second. But also, you know, if you have, say, either dependency conflicts that are too complicated
to resolve on the Connect server, or you just, you know, you don't actually want to make the
source code available, you can just render the document locally and then push it to the Connect
server. The reason I'm going to call this presentation notebook is that one of the things
we enable you to do as you're publishing is specify that you don't actually want people
to be able to see the code in the notebook, right? So, this hide all input code cells,
and there's a corresponding flag in the command line interface. We'll just make it be the case
that, you know, when this notebook is deployed, what we'll see is just the plots, but we won't
actually see the code that generated them. And so, for things that you intend to be for,
you know, sharing, but not necessarily, you know, a walkthrough of how you got the results,
being able to hide those cells is really useful, and you can also hide specific cells if you tag
them. And so, I'll hit publish, right? In this case, I'm getting the new location, right,
new title, presentation notebook, and then I'm going to publish this, and I think I need to make
this small to hit publish. And so, again, the process I described as we went through deploying
a Streamlit application is going to be the same, right, which is we're going to make sure we have
an accounting of the files we need. In this case, it's the Python notebook files,
the requirements that we have for re-executing this environment, right? So, in addition to,
say, Jupyter, right, there's also some NumPy manipulation taking place in this file,
and so we need to make sure that that library is installed in addition to,
in addition to the Jupyter libraries, we're going to push that over to the Connect server.
Connect rebuilds this notebook in an isolated environment, and then you can see we're going
through the process of rendering the notebook, and once that's done, we'll have something that's
ready to present and share with other people.
And I'll say just a reminder for anybody who missed the Slido link that we shared,
you can also ask questions anonymously if you don't want to just comment in the YouTube chat,
and Tom Mock just shared that for us in the YouTube chat. Thanks, Tom.
So, that covers sort of the process of getting things from the development environment
to Connect where they're going to be shared, and so the last couple of things I want to do
is just show you some of the possibilities once you've deployed a document to Connect,
right? So, in this case, you can see, right, the code required to generate these plots
not being shown, right? So, you've got a notebook that's presentation ready.
One of the first things you might want to do, right, is make this a little bit easier to find,
right? So, when you deploy a piece of content to Connect, you're going to get,
you know, it deployed at this unique URL, which is not necessarily the most memorable thing in
the world. So, one of the things we enable you to do is set a custom content URL, and that's
just going to make it, you know, really simple, give you a memorable, a place with a more memorable
name to share that notebook, and the nice thing about that is once, you know, once you've
generated that URL, if you open up a new window and you share the notebook with someone there,
right, then they're just seeing that content, right? They don't even see any of the sort of
Connect UI, right? And so, for, you know, stakeholders who aren't, say, on your data
science team, right, this is going to be probably a presentation that they much prefer, right? You
know, you're insulating them from, like, the deployment details, and you just get them to
focus on the results. The other thing you're going to have control over is who's allowed to
see this notebook, and since Connect sort of integrates with, it can be integrated with
whatever enterprise authentication system you're using, right, I could say add the rest of the
members of the solutions engineering team as viewers of this content. I could add specific
people. I can give them collaborator permissions, which is going to mean that they have the ability
to come in and make further modifications to that document. I can make the document more
permissive and say, okay, you know, anybody who reaches this server can view this document,
but they have to log in first, so you get a really wide range of ways that you can share this content
with people in your enterprise. The other nice thing that you get on the document side is going
to be the ability to set things to run on a schedule, right? So, say that rather than a
notebook that's just kind of read once, you have something that you want to run repeatedly.
This is going to, you know, because you are fetching external data, that might be a nice
way to sort of have, say, some monthly reporting or, you know, on whatever schedule is going to
work for you, and you can set that to sort of run on a schedule and then be emailed to people
you're collaborating with or other viewers. Rachel, I saw you had a question.
Yeah, quick question. I love that now we're making this very interactive here. Somebody asked,
they said, I'm a bit actually a lot confused. They expected to see the usual RStudio,
like I imagine RStudio on their desktop, but we're curious, what environment is this work being done
in? So, and yeah, if I was not clear enough about that, I'm sorry, right? So, Workbench,
right, is gives you the option of starting lots of different editors. So, the Streamlit applications
I was working with, right, I'm working with in VS Code, which is, you know, a pretty popular
sort of editor for doing lots of kinds of code editing and management. Jupyter is going to
support doing a lot of that sort of notebook style development. You can edit Jupyter notebooks
in VS Code as well. That's actually my preferred workflow. And then, again, the RStudio IDE is also
sort of available to you in Workbench. And so, you get the full sort of range of different things,
right? It's a, right, when we talk about it being a home for R and Python, right, it's because
you have the ability to run both R as well as like different Python editors. They're, you know,
they have access to the same files if you do configuration for access to databases. All that
information is going to be sort of consolidated in one place. Awesome. Thank you. I think also
for anybody who's never even seen RStudio Workbench 2, it might be helpful to just cover
what's the difference between Workbench and maybe the open source RStudio IDE.
So, you know, Workbench has a few different flavors, right? Or sorry, RStudio has a few
different flavors, right? There's the desktop IDE, right, which is the open source one that
lots of people use. I used it for a long time before I worked here, right? And that's just
going to run on whatever, you know, that runs on Mac OS. That's going to run on Windows. That'll
run on Linux desktop if you're that kind of person. And then, there's the open source RStudio server,
which gives you the same kind of browser-based capability that I was talking about. So, you know,
you can run, say, you know, again, you can drop into the RStudio IDE running in the browser.
There are a few differences in terms of features and functionality that the professional
version of the IDE supports. Some of them are around, like, you know, auditing, just like
things that are going to be single sign-on configuration, things that are going to be
much more important to enterprise users. And that's where Workbench comes in. So,
there are lots of open source ways of running, like, the RStudio IDE. There are, like,
Docker images from the Rocker project that make that really easy. I think once people find that
they need to run those things in an enterprise context, then Workbench is where they tend to go.
And so, Workbench supports, you know, running those multiple editors, the things I was mentioning
earlier about running in these different computing contexts. So, if you need to work in Kubernetes
or Slurm or some other external resource manager, then that's when you'd be looking
for some of the functionalities that Workbench provides.
Awesome. Thanks, David. And just tell me when you want me to stop asking questions.
I mean, that is the, like, I think the core of the workflow, right? We've seen,
right, there's, you know, you get the ability to manage packages from package manager.
You, you know, Workbench gives you a collection of different editing environments that you can use
to get your work done in a way that feels comfortable for you. And it's going to support
your team and their diverse preferences really well. And then Connect is going to, you know,
be able to run and make it easy for you to share things, whether they're built with Shiny or Dash
or Streamlit or what have you. So, I'm happy to just take questions for the remaining time we
have here because I think that covers sort of the basic flow.
Awesome. Thank you so much. And thank you for the, just kind of going over the high-level
differences between RStudio as it exists on your desktop and RStudio Workbench as well. I think
sometimes we get so used to working with it that we forget a bunch of people may not even
have heard of RStudio Workbench, Connect, or Package Manager before, too. I see somebody
asked on Slido, can I publish an application with, I'm going to, I'm not sure if I pronounced
this right, IPy widgets to allow collaborators to change settings and rerun the notebook?
So, not currently. So, right now, Jupyter, the Jupyter support in Connect is limited to what
you think of as the static document model, right? So, there's no running Python process behind the
document. I know that that's something we're thinking about in terms of trying to make sure
we're supporting the full range of Python sort of interactive use cases. But right now, if you
deploy a notebook, then you can do sort of the client-side interactivity I illustrated earlier,
but sort of interacting with a running Python process isn't supported today.
Thank you. And I see someone else asked on YouTube, is VS Code just on the latest version
of RStudio Workbench? Because I think they have Workbench, but they don't have that yet.
So, yeah, VS Code support would have gone out in beta for like Juliet Rose, which was like 1.4.17
We've since switched to calendar versioning, and you should install the latest anyway.
So, if you're running a version that's older than 1.4, it's unlikely that you have VS Code.
And I would say that the more recent versions are where that support is going to be the best. So,
if you're interested in upgrading, I would just sort of go for the most recent version.
And I'll just say maybe I shouldn't share this email, but I will anyways. But
if you are in that situation and wanting to upgrade or have questions,
if you don't know who your account representative is, you can always just reach out to sales
at rstudio.com as well, and they can just connect you to the right person.
One other question that's on Slido is, is there a substantial difference in configuration when
setting up Workbench to allow editing on all the platforms, R or Python, or is that a fairly
standard setup? There is a little bit more configuration to do. So, you know, you go from
just installing R, right, to having to install Python, and then the Python packages that support
doing these different styles of editing. For Jupyter, for VS Code, you're installing another
kind of binary. So, there are a few more steps. It's not, I think, terribly involved. There is
some additional work required to get an installation that's fully featured up and
running. And then, you know, if you decide you want to, you know, there may be additional complexity
depending on like how many instances you want to run of Workbench and if you're trying to
cluster them or things like that. Great. Thanks, David.
I can keep going with questions, but I just want to make sure. Was there something else
you wanted to show us here, too? No, I'm here all day.
Okay. Yeah, any RStudio questions, throw them at us. So, somebody asked on YouTube,
just a clarification about RStudio team and if that was a name for the triple threat combo
of Workbench, Package Manager, and Connect. And yes, that is absolutely correct. So,
RStudio team is RStudio Workbench, Package Manager, and RStudio Connect.
Let's see. Are there other questions over on YouTube or on Slido?
Someone asked anonymously, what switches are you using on your mechanical keyboard?
They are, excuse me, they are Kelly Golds. Yeah, I have a ErgoDocs split keyboard and Kelly Golds,
which is, I'm glad you can tell.
Thanks, David. I have a question. If somebody wanted to just try this out,
and maybe watching today and hadn't seen it before, what's the best way to try this out?
To try out which?
To try out using Python on RStudio Workbench.
Yeah. What is the best way to try? I think there's probably a conversation to be had with your,
well, I guess there's two things. One, we have a hosted evaluation where we spin up an environment
that has everything, or most of the things that I showed today configured, and we can drop you
into that pretty easily to give you a chance to experiment. So, I think that's probably where I'd
start if you were interested in seeing whether it would be a good fit for you with the hosted
evaluation. Awesome. I just shared a link in the chat on YouTube as well, if you ever just wanted
to schedule time to chat with the team about it or just talk a bit more about your team's use case
or any challenges you face too. Let me go over to Slido and YouTube and just see if there's other
questions. Just as a reminder, if you want to ask anything anonymously, you can use the Slido link
as well. And so, I'll just reshare that link into YouTube too.
It's just rstd.io meetup-questions. Or feel free to just type it into the YouTube chat too.
Give people a few more minutes here.
David, what's your favorite example that highlights Python that's on solutions
on the solution site?
Do I have a favorite example? I love all my children equally. This isn't what I'm supposed
to say. I think the reticulate examples are kind of interesting. There's a collection of several of
them. And I think for there are often like reticulate is sometimes a little bit difficult
to get configured correctly. But if you do get that configuration correct, it's very powerful
because it stops you needing to rewrite a lot of things. So, we have some examples there where I
think there's an image classification example where the UI is written basically in shiny and
then the image classification is being handled by a PyTorch model. And so, if you're trying to spare
yourself, and I mean, there are bindings to Torch. So, it's not like you couldn't do things in a
single language stack. But if you do find yourself needing to go that cross language route, then I
think the fact that Connect makes it really easy to deploy these reticulated things is pretty nice.
Awesome. And I know I asked that question with just thinking that people would know what the
solution site is. And I was wondering if you would be able to just share that with everyone
on the screen too, just so they're aware of it. Let me find what I'm actually talking about.
I'll take that. Yeah. We have a collection of different resources, just ways of, you know,
summaries of best practices or problems we see people coming up against repeatedly. We try to
document some of those things at solutions.rstudio.com. And so, in this case, the image classification
thing that I mentioned, right, where you have a shiny UI PyTorch backend. I think this is an
example that I think is an interesting way, if that's a problem you're confronting.
Thank you. I always love pointing to Alex's bike share example on here too,
even if it's not necessarily a Python example. But I love that it shows the whole workflow too.
Yeah. And we've actually, we've just updated that to, you know, take advantage of some of
the newer things that are happening at RStudio in terms of sort of how we think about building
documents, what it looks like to share pinned models in an easier way. And so, this collection
of examples gives the end-to-end flow of, say, picking up some data from the APIs provided by
Lyft for the capital bike share in DC. And then, you know, through the process of, I'm trying to
understand how many bikes will be available at the station of my choosing at a given point in the day.
And so, we go through the exercise of trying to model those things and showing you how you can
break that app down into a bunch of different pieces and have those pieces live on Connect.
Awesome. Thank you. A few other questions on Slido, and one was,
can RStudio Workbench be integrated with Google Cloud? So, like RStudio Workbench on GCP?
It can, yeah. So, you can run, you could run, and we have customers who run Workbench in, you know,
oh gosh, what are their VMs called? Google Compute Engine, right? So, if you have, you know,
if you need to run Workbench in GC, you can do that. If you want to use the launcher with GKE,
that's an option for you as well. So, yeah, I mean, the requirements for Workbench are really,
like, you need a Linux server, and you need to be able to get access, and you need to install
the R language on it, but you can run it pretty much anywhere. Awesome. And someone just followed
up with, is that the same with RStudio team? Yeah. Yeah. So, all the product, the requirements
for all the products, those are listed at docs.rstudio.com, but in general,
as long as you're trying to install to one of our supported Linux distributions, it should be
pretty straightforward to get them running in the cloud of your choosing.
Great. And just to confirm, because I didn't read the whole question out,
that could be either in the cloud or on your own premise, if your team prefers that, too.
Yep. In your own data center, in Google Cloud, on Linode, like, wherever you feel like putting it.
Great. Let's see. One other question. Someone just asked a very broad question. Is C better,
or Python, for problem solving? Is C better, or Python? I don't know who has that problem,
right? Like, oh, should I write this in Python, or C? Like, congratulations if that's your problem.
No, I, yeah, like, no. Sorry, that's, I think, yeah, they, you can, you know, Python is,
Python calls a lot of C code. You could write, I think it's just, it's a question of, like,
what you're comfortable programming in. And if you're comfortable programming in C and Python,
and you want to know, like, I don't, I don't have an answer to that question. I can't write C.
Were there any questions that you really thought we were all going to
throw at you today and we didn't ask?
I thought someone was going to ask if they had to use virtual environments,
and the answer is yes. You always have to use a virtual environment. Always.
Thanks, David. Let me just go check one more time to see if there are any other questions that we
missed. So, last chance, if you want to ask anything, feel free to ask in the YouTube chat
here, or on the Slido link. Let's see. I will put a short plug in for something that I'm very
excited about. So, I've been at RStudio for over four and a half years, and I used to be on the
sales team, and I would so often meet with people who were trying to get into the sales team, and
I would so often meet with people who were trying to advocate for using RStudio at their company,
and were maybe running into roadblocks or just didn't know how to work with IT or start those
conversations, and so, we finally got to make this new site, which is rstudio.com champion,
and it is there to help you advocate for data science, whether that's R or Python
at your organization, so how to build a business case, how to maybe grow a data science community,
and meetups at your company, or really when someone, your boss asks you, like, hey,
who else in my industry is using this to pull all the industry examples we know of from meetups or
webinars or blog posts and put those together, too. Thank you for pulling it up, David.
But also, how to kick off the conversations with IT as well, and so, there's so many amazing people
from the community out there who have shared tips here with us, so this is all because of them,
but really, if you're in that position, I would recommend that you go and check it out, too.
Awesome. I put that link in the chat. I do see a few more questions on YouTube, so I'll
go ask those, too. One was, is it better to run a Python file from R or read in the functions?
Oh, you might be muted.
I'd say it's hard to give a general answer to that question,
so it probably depends on what you're trying to accomplish.
Okay. Thank you, and if you ever want to talk to us about what you're trying to accomplish,
feel free to reach out, too.
That would be a great question to spell out in more detail on community.
So, yeah, if you go to community.rstudio.com and you ask that question,
I think that would be a good place to sort of get into a discussion about, like, what
are you trying to achieve and which of those workflows is going to make the most sense.
Great. Thank you. I'm not sure if you will know the answer to this question,
but I saw one I missed earlier. Will the testing or posted environment that you mentioned
for RStudio team be available for the admin workshop at the conference?
I don't know if we've decided, like, we've landed on exactly what the infrastructure
for the admin workshop is going to look like yet, so I don't know.
Okay. And then just a short plug for anyone who is interested in checking out those workshops.
We do have the conference coming up July 25th through the 28th, and I'll share
the link in the Zoom, or sorry, the YouTube chat there, too. But thank you so much,
David, for answering all of our questions and just going with the flow here today.
Really appreciate it. Thank you all so much for bearing with us as well and jumping over
from one platform to another. Sorry for the technical difficulties there, but we are all
human. Even after the best testing, sometimes this happens. So, thank you all so much. Really
appreciate your time and all the great questions as well. As a reminder, right when this event is
over, the recording will be available here, too. But thank you all, and a huge thank you to you,
David. Really appreciate it. Thank you for having me. Have a good rest of the day.